---
title: Vietnam Trip Activities, Day 9
date: 2015-04-05T1:00
author: suttonbm
layout: post
categories:
  - travel
tags:
  - travel
  - vietnam
excerpt: >
  Diana and I later reflected that it was nice to have made it here before it becomes completely commercialized...
---
Today was the kayaking trip.  We were picked up by the tour company at 8am and very briefly met a couple from Berlin who was embarking on a 2 day, 1 night kayak and boat trip around the bay.  After figuring out the last payment details, we were given the option of single kayaks or a double.  We decided to go with a double since it would give us both the ability to rest if needed, got loaded up, and pushed off on the adventure.

The first stop along the way was one of hundreds of fishing communities in Halong Bay.  These communities all live completely on the water among interconnected house boats and fishing junks.  It is incredible to think that so many people can build a life living in what are essentially floating rafts with small shacks built on top.  Maybe more amazing is the number of dogs living in the village.  It seemed like every house had at least one, if not two dogs, even well away from the nearest land connection.

After the fishing village, we cut across (almost) open ocean to enter the first cluster of uninhabited islands in the karst.  For a bit the ride was pretty wavy, and Diana got a little nauseous.  We also struggled a bit to get in the groove of rowing together.  Despite my best efforts to give Diana rowing tips, she insisted on using her own style :).  We continued to explore a variety of sparsely populated islands for about 2.5 hours before stopping at an island resort for lunch.

Lunch today was relatively unimpressive    with the exception of the quantity.  There was a fairly large cruise (~20 people) that showed up shortly after us to stay at the resort, and we ate the same meal.  There were a bunch of tables set for six people, but Diana and I opted to sit at a table by ourselves.  However, we were served the same quantity of food as the rest of the six-person tables…  We were barely able to eat half of the food before giving up.  This meal, like all the others we’ve had in the north, was pretty bland.  I guess we both have a taste for spicier mid-Vietnam cuisine.

After lunch we explored a bit more before making an unscheduled stop at a fish farm.  The fish farm is very different from what I’ve seen in the US.  It was an array of nets suspended from 12-inch-wide walkways floating on plastic barrels.  Inside of each net, there were huge numbers of fish, sorted by variety.  Most of the fish we saw there were striped grouper and cobia (I’ve never heard of the latter, but they were huge).  Our guide wandered off and came back with a plate full of small fish to feed the farm.  I think it was also here that we got our first real taste of commercialization in the area.  There was a fairly large part boat that drifted past while blasting techno music, and a couple larger cruise vessels further off in another waterway.  Diana and I later reflected that it was nice to have made it here before it becomes completely commercialized.  Detours to local fish farms may become a thing of the past in 10 or 15 years.  At any rate, we hung out for a bit before continuing on our way.

Next stop on our journey was to a small island with a rocky beach to go swimming.  The weather wasn’t really appropriate for swimming, and we weren’t in swimsuits, so we just stretched our legs and snapped some photos.  Unfortunately, the same party boat we saw at the fish farm was anchored just offshore, and the techno/screaming girls kind of tainted the atmosphere.  To make it even more annoying, a couple unattractive, drunk girls decided to swim over to the island and make conversation with Diana and I.  We ended up courteously listening to them babble for most of the stop.  Such a stupid thing: getting drunk on a boat in such a beautiful place, surrounded by such poverty. \*end soapbox\*

Since this island was our last official stop, it was time to head back to home base.  Diana asked if we could make a stop at Monkey Island.  Monkey Island is well known in Halong Bay for its sole inhabitants, a type of monkey which only exists on this one island &#8211; nowhere else in the world.  They are semi-acclimated to human presence, and walk on the beach within viewing distance.  Our awesome guide willingly offered to make an unscheduled detour and take us to see.  We had two options &#8211; kayak all the way, or catch a water taxi.  Diana and I were both pretty beat at this point, so we decided to take the taxi.  What we didn’t know was that one does not catch water taxis while on land &#8211; you catch them in the middle of a bay somewhere.  In our case, we caught them in the middle of an exposed waterway, so there was some pretty good chop to navigate while transferring from kayak to boat.  I \*almost\* tipped the kayak with my foot while clambering out of it.

The water taxi and its driver are worth of a paragraph in themselves.  First of all, I assume that this boat was not particularly unique, i.e., reflective of most water taxis in Halong.  That’s somewhat important, because this boat had some character to it.  First of all, it could probably seat about 15 people, but only if they packed like sardines.  The roof is maybe 4 feet tall, and the bench is about 8 inches deep and 5 inches high.  You kind of squat on it and try not to bang your head on the ceiling.  Second, it seems like driving a water taxi is very much an ad-hoc, but at the same time skillful, trade.  You see, the driver has to work the rudder, motor speed, and bilge independently and manually.  At one point he was setting the boat’s speed with his right foot, steering with his left hand, and pumping the bilge with his right hand.  Third &#8211; this is also true in a general sense &#8211; it is amazing how many uses you can find for rebar when no other materials are cheap/available for use.  This taxi used it for the anchor as well as the transmission linkage.

Our driver got us to the island safely and quickly, and we disembarked for a brief walk on the beach/climb to a lookout point.  We got to observe a few monkeys on the beach, but not so many as I’d expected from an island known for the ridiculous quantity of monkeys.  We did get a great view of the bay from the lookout point, and it was still cool getting to see the monkeys in their natural habitat.  Once we were satisfied, we hopped back on the water taxi and headed back to home base.  Later in the evening we grabbed dinner, etc, but they weren’t really remarkable enough to write about.