---
title: Vietnam Trip Activities, Day 7
date: 2015-03-31
author: suttonbm
layout: post
categories:
  - travel
tags:
  - travel
  - vietnam
excerpt: >
  Here, they eat the shrimp with the shell on, and often eat the whole stinking thing (head included)...
---
Day 7 of our saga starts at Bac Mua&#8217;s house for breakfast.  To provide some background, my favorite Vietnamese dish is called Com Hen.  It is a delicious mix of rice, baby clams, assorted greens, and yummy shrimp sauce.  The dish is native to Hue, and we had an unspoken requirement to have some Com Hen before we leave the city.  So, since today was our last day in Hue, we had two options &#8211; breakfast or lunch.  We decided on breakfast.  Unlike last night&#8217;s home-cooked meal, we went out for breakfast.  When I say &#8220;went out&#8221; I mean, we walked 100ft down the street to where a nice lady was sitting in the sidewalk making it.  She was surrounded by the various ingredients and just shoveled them into the bowls we provided.  This meal cost us 7000d each (that&#8217;s less than $0.50).  I would say this was BY FAR the shadiest meal I&#8217;ve eaten on the trip.  I&#8217;m definitely starting the 48hr countdown after eating it.  Was it worth it?  I&#8217;d have to say that the actual dish was not as delicious as Diana&#8217;s Dad&#8217;s, but it was worth the experience of eating real Com Hen in Hue.

After breakfast, we headed over to a coffee shop on the river with Giang to enjoy some fresh avocado/banana smoothies and say our farewells.  One of the best parts of being in Vietnam (in my opinion) is the availability of fresh, cheap juice and smoothies.  Ours were a bit expensive today, but certainly less than $2.50.  We weren&#8217;t ready to wrap up our socializing after drinks, so we decided to head back to the Thien Mu pagoda to snap the pictures we couldn&#8217;t due to yesterday&#8217;s rain.  It was a little bit disappointing (but not too much) because I think it was more beautiful in the rain.  There is a wonderful view at the back of the pagoda that just didn&#8217;t look the same in bright, noon sunlight.  One thing that made this stop more interesting was the cicadas.  Over the past two days, we periodically heard a loud buzzing/siren sound while driving past a couple parks.  We weren&#8217;t sure at first what it was, but as we found out this morning, it was just the sound of hundreds of cicadas sounding their mating calls.  At the pagoda they were doing their thing, and it was absolutely deafening.  I found one at eye level in one of the bonsai trees and stopped to take a picture; I don&#8217;t think the sound was anything less than 100dB.

After we said our farewells to Giang, we headed back to O Lit&#8217;s place to have lunch (again).  The food was essentially the same as yesterday, so no comments there.  However, we hung out at the house for about 3 hours and got to experience a little bit of O Lit&#8217;s daily life.  When we arrive, there was a small tour (3 people) sitting and having tea in the dining room.  As it turns out, O Lit&#8217;s hospitality has no bound, and extends to any of the tourists that stop by during the day.  While we were there, 2 or 3 more tours went through.  I was pleased to see that most of the guides and guests were courteous and respectful of her house.  However, there was one guide that was just plain disrespectful.  He would bustle around and brush her out of the way while providing a loud explanation of the house&#8217;s history.  Diana and I were both pretty peeved that someone could be so rude to such a nice old lady, especially when visiting her home.

When we departed from our siesta, we said our goodbyes to O Lit and headed off on two motorbikes with Bac Mua and Diana&#8217;s Dad to see her mom&#8217;s parents&#8217;/grandparents&#8217; tombs.  We weren&#8217;t entirely sure where the tomb was, so we stopped at their estate to find a guide.  As it turns out, Diana&#8217;s grandparents donated their land to a buddhist temple.  It seems they had a pretty good chunk of property, because the temple was pretty huge.  We saw the tower from a quarter mile away.  Diana has an aunt that lives at the temple, and she kindly offered to show us the way.  As an 80-something lady, she didn&#8217;t hesitate at all to hop on the back of a motorbike or bushwhack her way to the tombs.  When we arrived, Diana and her dad paid their respects and we went on our way.  A word about Vietnamese tombs: elaborate, large tombs are not limited to royalty.  It seems to be standard practice to have a large cement plot where the body is buried (above ground), and in many cases, ornate headstones and decorative features.  Diana&#8217;s grandparents&#8217; tombs were not lacking in this regard, and were quite impressive to behold.

After the tombs, we made a brief stop to see yet another Aunt.  This one is 96 years old and highly reminiscent of a female buddha.  She isn&#8217;t outright chubby, but has just enough to exude a buddha-like vibe when sitting cross-legged on a bench.  She, like every other aunt, forced food down our throat.  This time, we had fresh fruit &#8211; oranges and papaya.  She kept trying to carry on a conversation directly with me, despite the obvious language barrier.  At one point she said, &#8220;Why don&#8217;t you speak Vietnamese?!&#8221;.  &#8220;Why don&#8217;t you speak English&#8221;, Diana&#8217;s Dad retorted with a chuckle.  Another interesting tidbit (I may have mentioned this before&#8230;): Oranges aren&#8217;t orange here.  The insides are, but the outsides are green!

After we ate our fill (plus some), we headed to Bac Mua&#8217;s house for a dinner before going to the airport.  Today&#8217;s meal consisted of Vietnamese pancakes (Banh Xeo), some garlicky vegetable, and cucumber soup.  Vietnamese pancakes are nothing like the flapjacks at home.  They consisted of a crunchy/chewy fried bread patty folded over shrimp, pork, vegetables, and some kind of sesame sauce.  They were really yummy, but I passed on the shrimp.  Here, they eat the shrimp with the shell on, and often eat the whole stinking thing (head included).  I guess I just haven&#8217;t reached that level of adventurousness yet.  In any case, we both ate heartily, said our goodbyes, and packed into a taxi to the airport to catch our plane to Hanoi.