---
title: Vietnam Trip Activities, Day 8
date: 2015-04-03
author: suttonbm
layout: post
categories:
  - travel
tags:
  - travel
  - vietnam
excerpt: >
  ... pretty much consisted of weaving in and out of traffic while going 90-95km/hr ...
---
For the sake of continuity, today’s post actually starts last night.  We arrived in Hanoi around 11:00pm, and had arranged for a driver to pick us up and bring us to the hotel downtown.  Our interaction with the driver was the first taste of North Vietnamese culture.  As it turns out, they are far less personable than all the folks we met in Saigon and Hue.  Our driver said no more than 5 words to us between the airport and our hotel, which was a good 30min drive.  I’m not sure if he was grumpy that our flight was delayed, but it seemed a little bit hostile to me.  I think my perspective was furthered by the fact that after Diana and I had packed into the car, he said “Wait”, and proceeded to lean against the car and have a smoke before we could leave.

The drive was even more harrowing than what we experienced in the worst Saigon traffic.  It pretty much consisted of weaving in and out of traffic while going 90-95km/hr, interspersed with random honks and flashing of brights at the poor people who wanted to go the speed limit.  Even once we got into the city, we were flying, cutting off mopeds at 60km/hr in a somewhat crowded intersection.  Nonetheless, we managed to arrive at our hotel unscathed, where an army of people pulled us and our luggage out of the car and into the hotel lobby.  After we checked in, the same swarm descended to bring all our bags up to the room.  Of course, this is all digging for a tourist tip to make a couple bucks.

The first weird thing about this hotel &#8211; our room was in an entirely separate building, with a different name.  It felt a little uncomfortable, but the Lonely Planet named this place #1 pick of the budget hotels in Hanoi.  Once we got up to the room, we discovered a few other wonderful features of this place.  First, the AC was broken.  No matter what we tried, it just wouldn’t work.  Luckily, there was a small window that we opened to get a breeze through the room.  Second, the toilet just randomly gurgled all night long, like there were bubbles or sewage backups coming up the pipe.  I even went to check on it at one point, but there was no nasty spill-over or anything, so I guess it was just a quirk.  At any rate, we only stayed here for about 6 hours to sleep, so all in all, not a big deal.  However, given that this place had such glowing reviews from Lonely Planet, I left wondering just how bad the other budget hotels were in Hanoi&#8230;..

For breakfast, we got ripped off for the first, but not the last, time in our Northern Vietnam adventure.  A nice old lady came and offered us french bread and cheese off her platter.  Figuring that this kind of thing is usually pretty cheap in Vietnam, we grabbed some bread and asked how much.  The response was 50,000d.  That’s $2.50.  For essentially two hoagie buns.  Ridiculous.  In Saigon, 10,000d would be standard for that breakfast, and might have included eggs, too.  At any rate, we ate our meager ration and caught a taxi to the bus station.  Our bus ride was more or less uneventful, although long.  The trip to Cat Ba island consists of a 2.5hr bus ride to Hai Phong, a 20min bus to the ferry, a 30m ferry ride, and a 30min bus ride to Cat Ba town.

Once we arrived in Cat Ba town, we had to make the careful selection of a hotel to stay for two nights.  We had initially planned to stay at the Noble House, a well-regarded hotel in the Lonely Planet, but also pretty popular with most of the tourists.  We made a last minute decision (perhaps later regretted) to try something a little less mainstream.  When we got off the bus, there was an army of hotel owners/workers flashing pictures of their rooms and looking for visitors to stay.  A guy from a hotel called Cat Ba Dream caught us and brought Diana to look at the room while I walked to the hotel with all our luggage.  The room looked nice and overlooked the bay, and the rate was reasonable (200,000d/nt).  We decided to stay there instead of wasting time looking for other places.  During check-in, we did ask if there was AC, and were informed, yes, for an additional 15,000d per night.  We figured $0.75 was worth some cool air instead of hot, humid, ocean air all night, so we gladly agreed.  Finally, before we headed up to our room, there was the apparently standard attempt by the hotel to sell us various tour packages.  They offered the standard fare of kayaking and trekking, and we took note of prices before heading upstairs.

By this time, our little hoagie bun breakfast had long since worn off, and we were hungry for some food, so we went to find a restaurant.  I think we ended up picking some random place on the street and ordered some Pho Ga.  The food was OK, but somewhat more bland that what we’ve eaten in previous locations.  I’m not really sure if it was just a mediocre restaurant, or if it’s regionally different food.  We have a couple more days, so we’ll find out based on the upcoming meals.

After lunch we decided to go exploring on our own.  We talked to the hotel guy and asked if they had any mopeds for rent.  He replied, yes, for 80,000d per day.  Diana asked if we could get a discount because it was 2pm, and he replied, “no”.  This was a pretty stark difference compared to the nice girl in Hue, who agreed on 80,000d for whole day and later asked for less because we didn’t use it the whole time.  At any rate, we took the scooter and went on our exploring adventure.  We took three stops while we were out: Hospital Cave, Cat Ba National Park, and Blue Swimmer Tours.

Hospital Cave, our first stop, was pretty neat.  About halfway up one of the mountains, there is a naturally formed cave inside of which the VC built a hospital complex during the American (Vietnam) War.  There’s nothing there but empty rooms now, but it was still a really impressive structure.  There were 18 rooms of various sizes, as well as a small swimming pool (more like a deep bathtub).  We walked through the whole thing and snapped a couple creepy cave pictures and headed to our next stop.

Cat Ba National Park, the second stop, is the destination of all the trekking tours on the island.  Diana had read that we needed a guide to see anything other than trees, but we decided to give it a try on our own, especially since we only had about an hour to explore.  There ended up being a few established trails leading various places, and we decided to take a hike to the peak of one of the mountains.  It ended up being a pretty good workout &#8211; we went 1.5km and probably 150m elevation in less than 30min.  At the end we were rewarded with a pretty impressive view looking out over the jungle.  On the way back down we took a brief detour to a random structure used for temporary monkey rehabilitation.  We got to get pretty close to the monkeys (they were caged), but it was really kind of sad.  There was one that looked pretty beat up from something, and became extremely agitated when we approached his enclosure.  Diana was worried that they had been forgotten and were just living there permanently.  I don’t think that was the case, though.

A brief aside about driving here &#8211; it’s really fun.  There’s hardly any traffic on the roads, so you don’t really have to worry about some stupid taxi driver running you off the road or pulling out in front of you, so cruising fast is definitely an option.  The roads are also hilly and curvy enough to make the driving exciting.  I had quite a bit of fun driving the moped around &#8211; much more so than my brief drive in Hue.

After the hike, we headed back to the city to stop at Blue Swimmer Adventures, also recommended by Lonely Planet.  Blue Swimmer is run by a local guy and employs local guides for all the tours, but is also a reputable adventure company.  There’s another company here, Slo Pony, but it’s Aussie owned and run.  We wanted to support the local economy, but were a little unsure about signing up at the hotel without knowing exactly what was included or what the quality of the guide/equipment would be.  Anyways, Blue Swimmer seemed like a nice compromise.  When we got there, we found out that they offer a full-day guided kayak trip for $38 each.  What was really great is that the owner greeted us enthusiastically and proceeded to show us exactly where we would kayak and what we would see on a big map on the wall.  It really helped us to understand what we were paying for, and we decided to buy the tour there.

After making a quick stop to fill up the gas on the moped, we headed back to the hotel for dinner.  This was the first time, but not the last, that we felt a tinge of regret for our hotel selection.  As we were leaving the hotel for dinner, the guy who sold us the room asked about the tours.  Diana tried to evade his question, but mistakenly informed him that we’d chosen another provider.  He got pretty aggressive in asking why we hadn’t bought it from him, to the point where Diana was worried he’d do something like steal our money.  We ended up going upstairs and bringing all our money and valuables with us to dinner.

Another aside &#8211; it seems that the Com Hen (or something else) finally got me.  I also experienced my first travelers’ diarrhea this afternoon.  I’m glad I made it this far without any incident, but I’m feeling a little bit crummy now &#8211; hopefully it will pass quickly.  Of course, Diana, with her stomach of cast iron, has been entirely unaffected, despite being far more careless with her food choices than me.  Maybe it is just her heritage, or maybe she’s just better than me.  Who knows?

Dinner wasn’t really anything special.  I wasn’t terribly hungry, and Diana was rather disappointed by the Americanized Vietnamese cuisine at our chosen spot.  The one highlight was that after Diana ordered fresh orange juice, our waiter disappeared on a moped for about 15 minutes before coming back with a bag of oranges in his hand.  I’m convinced that he had to get the oranges fresh from the market in order to make Diana’s juice.  Now that’s fresh.