---
title: "BOMM - No.1"
date: 2016-10-23
author: suttonbm
layout: post
categories:
  - projects
tags:
  - mead
  - homebrew
project: homebrew
excerpt: >
  My first attempt at the BOMM
---

My first attempt at making a [BOMM](https://www.denardbrewing.com/blog/post/brays-one-month-mead/) mead.  Lots of good lessons learned throughout this one; looking forward to trying the end product and then trying again.

#### The Ingredients
  * 24oz [Ambrosia Honey](http://imgur.com/D7dCjxU)
  * 16oz [Stroope Farms Wildflower Honey](http://imgur.com/gPKVRgx)
  * 1 smack pack Wyeast 1388
  * 1/4 tsp KHCO3
  * 3/4 tsp LD Carlson DAP (split into three additions)
  * 3/4 tsp LD Carlson Yeast Energizer (split into three additions)
  * Balance Ozarka Spring Water

Note - the actual BOMM recipe calls for Fermaid K instead of LD Carlson Yeast Energizer.  I added it assuming it would be the same, but I'm not sure that is actually the case.

#### Post-Script on YAN
It turns out adding this much DAP may not actually be the best plan.  According to an episode of the [MeadMakr Podcast](http://www.meadmakr.com/mm027-making-of-the-bomm-with-bray-denard/), the specified protocol above exceeds US Federal limits.  I tried to research this myself, but I'm not sure how this is specified, or why the limit has been set.  At any rate, it seems like the best way to do this on future batches is to use [Tailored Organic SNA's](http://www.meadmaderight.com/info.html), or possibly a combination organic/inorganic approach.

#### The Process
Brewed this mead using the no-heat method.  Measured out 2.5lb of honey, leaving a small amount left in both containers.  Added water, KHCO3, and first dose of DAP/Energizer, and shook to aerate/dissolve the honey.  Pitched the smack pack after ~2 hours at RT to swell.

This was one of my first batches where I tried to use a refractometer to monitor fermentation. In conjunction, I also used a pretty aggressive cooling solution. One big oops on my part was to get impatient with the nutrient additions.  I was really surprised when after 4-5 days it didn't seem like I'd hit the 1/3 sugar break yet.  I went ahead and added the nutrients as specified even though my refractometer reading indicated the sugar to be quite a bit higher.  However, when I later removed the fermenter from the cooling bath to complete the last third of fermentation, it really took off.  I think that I was probably holding the temperature a little too low in 1388's temperature range, and the speed of fermentation was just really slow.

Hopefully this won't hurt the end product too much.  I didn't add more than the specified amount, so with any luck, there won't be gobs of nitrogen left in solution for spoilage organisms to eat.

After reaching ~1.01, I added the remaining ~4oz honey.

When fermentation seemed to stall out, cold crashed in the fridge for a couple days to get the haze to drop out, then racked onto 1 campden tablet.

After a few more days, I added 1 vanilla bean and 4 cubes of french/american medium char.  To sanitize the additions, I boiled in ~1/2c water for 10 minutes.

#### Lessons Learned
	1. If it seems like your fermentation monitor isn't reading right, you are wrong.  It is reading correctly and something else isn't happening as you expect.
	2. As previously noted, using tailored nutrient additions with a combination of DAP and organic nitrogen may be a better way to go for nutrients.
	3. The stuff inside the vanilla bean is where all the flavor is.  Don't throw it out like I did.
	4. Keep better notes on the fermentation progress.  Consider taking daily refractometer readings on the next batch to see how fermentation kinetics work out.

#### Tasting Notes
Forthcoming!