---
title: "Graff No.1"
date: 2016-11-14
author: suttonbm
layout: post
categories:
  - projects
tags:
  - homebrew
  - cider
project: homebrew
excerpt: >
  Graff - Attempt Number 1
---

After reading all the raving reviews of this hopped, malty cider on [HomebrewTalk](http://www.homebrewtalk.com/showthread.php?t=117117), I decided to give it a shot myself.

#### The Ingredients
	* 8oz Crystal 120L Crushed Grain
	* 1oz Torrified Wheat
	* 8oz Amber DME
	* 8oz Light DME
	* 1 Gallon [Three-Apple TreeTop Blend](http://imgur.com/nVj7Njm)
	* 1 Gallon [TreeTop Cider](http://imgur.com/5DdkjGe)
	* 0.25 oz Cascade Hops (Pellet)
	* Nottingham Yeast (1 pkt)

#### The Process
Steep the 120L and torrified wheat in 0.5 gallons of water while bringing up to temp.  At 160F, kill the heat and let sit for 20 minutes*.  Swirled the grains around in the water - did not sparge.  Added DME and hops and another ~1c water.  Brought to a boil and boiled for 30 min.

During the boil, sanitized 2.5gal carboy and added 1.5 gallons of chilled juice (from the fridge).  Reserved half gallon for later addition.

After boil completed, pitched wort directly into the cold juice (I don't care about clarity)**.

Will ferment at ~68-70F until complete.

*Note 1: I accidentally overshot the temperature target.  The temp peaked at 175F during this brew, and eventually fell back to the 160s.
**Note 2: I screwed up and got a fair bit of trub in the fermenter, even thought I was using a filter.

#### Update 12/4
Bottled.  Target carbonation level ~3 vol.

#### Tasting Notes
Pretty good flavor at ~3 weeks after bottling.  There is a definite hint of alcohol in the flavor, but it isn't entirely unpleasant.  The apple flavor is not exceptional with this - likely due to the juice blend I selected.  Next time I'll have to look for a better blend.  Head is foamy not not long-lasting.  Just off-white.  Slight bitterness from the hops, but just barely noticeable.

Overall, an enjoyable recipe.  I'll have to give it a try again.  Some things I'll try differently next time:

  * Don't get trub in the fermenter
  * Maybe slightly more hops (or consider dry-hopping with an appropriately complementary hop aroma profile)
  * Use a more flavorful blend of apple juice

Also on the list of things to try: I feel like this would be an excellent base for other beer-like fermented juices - for example, cranberry or blackberry.  Maybe not 100% alternative juices, but in some ratio with the apple juice.
