---
title: "Belgian Tripel (NB Extract)"
date: 2017-01-28
author: suttonbm
layout: post
categories:
  - projects
tags:
  - homebrew
  - beer
project: homebrew
excerpt: >
  First 2.5 gallon batch, attempting the NB belgian tripel.
---

### Ingredients:
  * 0.3lb 10L
  * 3.15lb Gold LME
  * 0.5lb Clear Belgian Candi
  * 0.5oz German Perle
  * 0.5oz Saaz
  * 1lb Gold DME
  * Lallemand Abbaye (1pkt, 6mo Expired)

### Plan:
Start @ 2.5gal H2O in kettle
  * Steep specialty grains while heating, rest @ 160F for 20min
  * Remove 0.5gal to separate pot for boil
  * Kill heat, add 1lb Gold Light DME and Candi
  * Return to boil
  * 0.5oz Perle @ 60min
  * 3.15lb Gold LME @ 20min
  * 0.5oz Saaz @ 15min
  * Add 0.5 reserved specialty at end of boil
  * Cool wort
  * Rack wort to primary
  * Top up to 2.5gal + 8oz with spring water
  * Aerate vigorously to mix
  * Measure SG and Brix w/ refractometer
  * Pitch 1pk Abbaye dry
  * Start Ferment @ 65-68F, slowly raise to ~75F over 7 days

Killed Heat at 160F, 7:20p
162F @ 5min
160 @ 10min
158 @ 20min
LME @ 21:45
Saaz @ 26:45 + 1:30 (bringing back to boil)

Target OG 1.076
Actual OG 1.073
Refractometer - 17.3 Brix -> WCF 0.98

Pitched 1 packet Lallemand Abbaye @ 72F

1/30:
Lag ~48hr, still not vigorous fermentation, but it is bubbling.  Looks like Abbaye might be a bit of a slow starter.

2/1:
At 84hr, fermentation has picked up to a nice vigorous clip.  Will allow temperature to drift upwards now that active fermentation is under way.  Set A/C to 72F, will adjust again in a couple days.

2/8:
Racked to secondary.  Added 1t gelatin, plus a little dextrose to help purge CO2.
Good flavor, still some residual sweetness though.  Not a strong alcohol bite.  Slight hoppy nose, strong malt on the tongue, slight bitterness on the finish.  Definitely have some esters going on - a slight banana nose to it.  Will be interesting to see how it ages.

SG 1.013
Refractometer 9 Brix

#### Fermentation Plan:
Ferment primary 4wk
Secondary 2-3mo

#### 3/9/2017
Bottled, carbed w/ dextrose to 3 vol.

#### 5/13/17 Tasting
Nose: Slight hops, fruity (almost pear?)... Flavor is malt forward with some fruit.  Slight bitterness follows in the middle.  Finish is long, with some banana and clove.  Little alcohol in the flavor, but definitely some warmth along the finish.  Pretty full body, but finishes dry.
