---
title: Vietnam Trip Activities, Day 5
date: 2015-03-31
author: suttonbm
layout: post
categories:
  - travel
tags:
  - travel
  - vietnam
excerpt: >
  It was interesting to see partially or completely restored buildings juxtaposed next to crumbling walls or even piles of rubble...
---

Day one of our second trip to Vietnam!  Technically the travel day, so let's call it day 0.  This time, we managed to convince my parents to tag along for our madness.  Our trip over here was uneventful but long...  There were pretty much no movies worth watching on the flights.  Maybe Hollywood has just been putting out junk recently, or maybe our timing is just off for recent releases.  Diana slept most of the flight.  I played Civ for about 6 hours before my neck just couldn't take the strain any longer, and then watched a couple movies.  Turbo was actually pretty good.

One odd part of our trip was the awkward baggage transfer process from Virgin to Eva.  Apparently we needed our bag tags in order to successfully transfer the bags, and Virgin doesn't give bag tags - it's just on the boarding pass.  Of course I threw mine away, who wants to carry around a bunch of paper for 26 hours of travel?  Luckily Diana had the foresight (luck) to have not thrown hers away, and the folks at Eva were more than accommodating to help ensure everything made it to Vietnam.

When we landed in Taipei and connected to the free WiFi, the first thing we saw was another notice from our good-for-nothing HOA management company, complaining about some renovation remnants on our porch.  It seems it only took them 5 days to notice and complain, because I just put up new shelves last weekend.  Luckily we had already cleaned the porch up, so no biggie.  AMS got a nice nastigram on a direct line from Taipei Int'l.

Anyway, we got to Vietnam ok and met up with my parents outside the airport.  Anh Khoi and Tony were nice enough to pick us up and get us over to the hotel, and then took us out for pho at a local place.  My dad unfortunately had very limited food on the airplane due to his celiac.  I think he said 5 bananas or something like that.  The pho was good; Diana was all like (eat your skin blah blah blah) and I dumped the really weird bits in her bowl and all was well.  All in all, not a bad day of travel.