---
title: Vietnam Trip Activities, Day 5
date: 2015-03-31
author: suttonbm
layout: post
categories:
  - travel
tags:
  - travel
  - vietnam
excerpt: >
  It was interesting to see partially or completely restored buildings juxtaposed next to crumbling walls or even piles of rubble...
---

Day 1 in Vietnam! A day of exciting tourist traps and... stressful travel.  In a nutshell: palace, tanks, lost phone, last call, crowded bus, tiny beds.  Let's start from the beginning.  Diana and I were up about 5:00 this morning.  We went for a short stroll around the block while we waited for my parents to get up.  Once they got up at 7:30 - don't know how they slept that long - we went out to get some mi quang for breakfast.  I impressed Diana with my bone chewing (I even ate the fat), even though I didn't eat the whole shrimp.  It was pretty funny watching my mom try to eat her meat.  We kept telling her to just pick it up and bite off chunks.  It's her first real meal.  She'll get it by the time we leave - table manners aren't a thing here.

After breakfast Tony took us to the old french post office, and quickly discovered how quickly Saigon is changing.  In just the two years since we were here last, a whole road of bookstores and coffee shops popped up next to the post office.  Tony told us that three million people have moved into Saigon in the past two years.  I guess we were luck to be in Saigon on a Sunday, because I can't imagine how traffic must be now.  Last time it was awful.  After the post office we went to see the presidential palace, which Diana and I didn't visit last time.  Mostly pretty rooms inside, but the bunker was pretty neat.  They had a bunch of old radio equipment down in the bunker, and that was pretty neat to see.  The palace was also the first location where some women asked for a picture with me.

Next, we walked over to the war memorial and snuck in to take pictures of some tanks.  We weren't really sure if a ticket was required for entry so we just walked right in.  I guess they weren't paying very close attention.  There were many more people (and tanks) there than I remember last time - something that may become a trend for the rest of the trip.  We snapped our pictures and headed back to the hotel to check out and catch a cab to the airport.

We arrived at the airport almost 2 hours before departure.  This is when things got a little stressful.  First, the check-in line was super long.  As we queued up, I instinctively reached for my phone to check the time and... nothing.  Somewhere between the hotel and the airport I managed to lose my phone.  Stupid, stupid, stupid.  Luckily, the flight-catching situation quickly made me forget about the phone.  We got about 2/3 of the way through the check-in line when groups of people suddenly started getting let in (or were letting themselves in) through a second path and generally cutting in front of everyone else.  We started getting aggressive and pushed through some people to get to a kiosk and... a family appeared in front of us at the same time that the attendant stood up and walked off.  We sent my dad over to another line to see if that one would open up faster... And it did.  Lucky for us, too.

Once we were checked in, it was about two minutes prior to boarding.  We hurried upstairs to security, hoping that the line would be short and... nope.  Saigon hates us today.  The line was super long, and not moving very fast.  We asked a security guy what to do and showed him our boarding pass, and he said to stand in line, someone would come.  We got in line.  Nobody came.  As we were waiting in line, boarding started.  Continued.  Fifteen minutes passed.  We were about halfway through the line and counting the seconds when it sounded like the PA system called my name specifically and asked me to report to the gate.  We tried to get a security guy to let us through the VIP line, but he wasn't having any of it.  As we approached the front of the line, they called final boarding for our flight.  Simultaneously, a family tried pushing through the line in front of us, and my mom shut. her. down.  When we got through security we didn't even bother to push our shoes back on.  We ran through in our socks and rushed through the gate.  Luckily we made it, but there were about 3 people left in line to board, and we were the last ones through security.  Clearly there must have been some folks who were less lucky than us, because there were some empty seats where there shouldn't have been.  Diana and I shamelessly took advantage of this fact and moved up to a couple bulkhead seats instead of our middle seats with no legroom :).

After we landed in Hanoi, we faced the difficult task of finding a taxi to bring us into the city.  It took us a few tries to get one to stop for us, and then he wanted D500k to take us into the city.  We kindly (actually pretty firmly) turned him down, as this seemed a bit high to us at the time.  Instead, we hopped on a bus to the city center to travel like the locals.  It was pretty crowded, but much cheaper.  However, about halfway into the trip we realized why the taxi driver wanted so much.  The traffic was shockingly bad.  Close to a parking lot, for at least 30 minutes, maybe closer to an hour.  It would have been surprising if the taxi cost was as low as 500k given the time spent in traffic.

At any rate, we got into the city and managed to find ourselves some beef pho for dinner in a somewhat touristy part of town.  After dinner we headed to the train station to catch a ride to Sapa Town.  We ended up spending about 90 minutes sitting in the train terminal waiting for the attendant to start providing train tickets.  It was largely an uneventful wait, although my mom did try a squat toilet for the first time and was able to avoid falling in - hats off to her for that.  By the time they were ready to start letting people onto the train, there was a pretty large crowd of tourists waiting at the train station.  It was a bit surprising; we didn't expect Sapa to see very heavy traffic.  Around 9:00 they started letting people get on the train, and we went to get situated in our cabin.  It was a little bit surprising how small the beds were - definitely too short for me, but I think everyone managed to get at least half a night's sleep before we were woken up by the morning breakfast call in Sapa.